


[Pages H1158-H1162]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Ms. De La CRUZ (for herself, Mr. Evans of Colorado, 
             Mr. Veasey, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. Panetta, Ms. Norton, 
             Ms. Pettersen, Ms. Lee of Nevada, Ms. Barragan, Mr. 
             Valadao, and Mrs. Kim):
       H.R. 2092. A bill to require the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services to establish a task force to improve access to 
     health care information technology for non-English speakers; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. CALVERT (for himself, Mr. Garamendi, and Mr. 
             Rouzer):
       H.R. 2093. A bill to amend the Federal Water Pollution 
     Control Act with respect to permitting terms, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. RUTHERFORD (for himself, Mrs. Watson Coleman, 
             Mr. Garbarino, and Mr. Gottheimer):
       H.R. 2094. A bill to amend the National Housing Act to 
     establish a mortgage insurance program for first responders, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Mr. GARBARINO:
       H.R. 2095. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     modify the role and duties of United States Postal Service 
     police officers, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee on Oversight 
     and Government Reform, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. GARBARINO (for himself and Mr. Stauber):
       H.R. 2096. A bill to restore the right to negotiate matters 
     pertaining to the discipline of law enforcement officers of 
     the District of Columbia through collective bargaining, to 
     restore the statute of limitations for bringing disciplinary 
     cases against members or civilian employees of the 
     Metropolitan Police Department of the District of Columbia, 
     and

[[Page H1159]]

     for other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey:
       H.R. 2097. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow a refundable credit against income tax for 
     tuition expenses incurred for each qualifying child of the 
     taxpayer in attending public or private elementary or 
     secondary school; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. ADERHOLT (for himself, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Johnson 
             of Georgia, Mr. Davis of North Carolina, Mrs. 
             Cherfilus-McCormick, Ms. Tenney, Ms. Craig, Mr. 
             Wilson of South Carolina, Mr. Carter of Georgia, Mr. 
             Cole, Mr. Costa, Mrs. Foushee, Mr. Lawler, and Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz):
       H.R. 2098. A bill to require on-time delivery of 
     periodicals to unlock additional rate authority, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. ALLEN:
       H.R. 2099. A bill to amend the Workforce Innovation and 
     Opportunity Act to authorize a study to review specific 
     outcomes of entrepreneurial skills development programs, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Education and 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. BABIN:
       H.R. 2100. A bill to prohibit the United States Government 
     from providing bailouts or other financial assistance to any 
     State or local government that enacts any law providing 
     reparations for slavery, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mrs. BICE (for herself and Mr. Self):
       H.R. 2101. A bill to prohibit the award of Federal grants 
     to applicants submitting duplicative or fraudulent 
     applications, to require the Director of Office of Management 
     and Budget to establish a tracking and deconfliction system 
     for Federal grant applications, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. BILIRAKIS (for himself, Mr. Ruiz, Mr. Doggett, 
             Mr. Davis of North Carolina, Mr. Wilson of South 
             Carolina, Mr. Webster of Florida, Mrs. Ramirez, Ms. 
             DeGette, Mr. Owens, Mr. Khanna, Ms. Tenney, Mr. 
             Keating, Mr. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Feenstra, Mr. 
             Torres of New York, Mr. Bishop, Mr. McGovern, Mr. 
             Connolly, Mr. McGarvey, Mr. Miller of Ohio, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Golden of Maine, Ms. Scanlon, Ms. 
             Sherrill, Mr. Finstad, Mr. Ciscomani, Mr. Turner of 
             Ohio, Mr. Thanedar, Mr. Panetta, Mr. Sorensen, Ms. 
             Ross, Ms. Budzinski, Ms. Pettersen, Mr. Grijalva, 
             Mrs. Bice, Mr. Mullin, Ms. Tlaib, Mr. Barr, Mr. 
             Morelle, Ms. Malliotakis, Ms. Schrier, Mr. Tonko, Mr. 
             Fitzpatrick, Mrs. Cammack, Ms. Salinas, Mrs. 
             Cherfilus-McCormick, Ms. Brownley, Mr. Carter of 
             Georgia, Ms. Brown, Ms. Perez, Mr. Lawler, Mr. 
             Wittman, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Mrvan, Ms. Craig, Mr. 
             Schneider, Mrs. Miller-Meeks, Mr. Norcross, Mr. 
             Rutherford, Mr. Gottheimer, Ms. Van Duyne, Ms. 
             Strickland, Ms. Letlow, Mr. Newhouse, Mr. Meuser, Mr. 
             Neguse, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Carter of Louisiana, Mr. 
             Stauber, Mr. McClintock, Ms. Jacobs, Mr. Bacon, Mr. 
             Carson, Mr. Pfluger, Mr. Valadao, Mrs. Torres of 
             California, Mr. Garcia of California, Ms. Kelly of 
             Illinois, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, Mr. Van Drew, 
             Ms. McClellan, Ms. King-Hinds, Mr. Case, Mr. Wied, 
             Mr. McDowell, Mr. Strong, Mr. Hamadeh of Arizona, Mr. 
             Zinke, Ms. Matsui, Mr. Frost, Mr. Smith of New 
             Jersey, Mr. Costa, Mrs. Kim, Ms. De La Cruz, Mr. 
             Ivey, Mr. Gimenez, Ms. DelBene, Mr. Fry, Mr. 
             Garbarino, Mr. Ezell, Mr. Tony Gonzales of Texas, 
             Mrs. McClain Delaney, Ms. Titus, Ms. Goodlander, Ms. 
             DeLauro, Mr. Evans of Colorado, Mr. Moskowitz, Ms. 
             Stansbury, Ms. Omar, Mr. Obernolte, Mr. Baumgartner, 
             Mr. Hurd of Colorado, Mr. Magaziner, Ms. Velazquez, 
             Ms. Hoyle of Oregon, Mr. McCaul, Mr. Tiffany, Mr. 
             Moolenaar, Ms. Salazar, Mr. Higgins of Louisiana, Mr. 
             DesJarlais, Ms. Garcia of Texas, Ms. Scholten, Mr. 
             Hudson, Mr. Stanton, Mr. Veasey, Mr. Cohen, Mr. 
             Carbajal, Mr. Subramanyam, Mr. Landsman, Ms. 
             Houlahan, Mr. Langworthy, Mr. Simpson, Mr. Moulton, 
             Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. 
             Harder of California, Mr. Gomez, Mr. Castro of Texas, 
             Mrs. Miller of Illinois, Mr. Crank, Ms. Meng, Mr. 
             Kean, Mr. Lucas, Mr. Ryan, Ms. Pingree, Ms. Mace, Mr. 
             James, Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, Mr. Himes, Mr. 
             Green of Tennessee, Mr. Sherman, Mr. LaHood, Mr. 
             Fleischmann, Mr. Thompson of California, Mr. Crow, 
             Mr. Yakym, Mr. Timmons, Mr. Levin, Mr. David Scott of 
             Georgia, Ms. Barragan, Ms. Williams of Georgia, Mr. 
             Casten, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Courtney, Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida, Mr. Massie, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Scott Franklin 
             of Florida, Ms. Lois Frankel of Florida, Ms. 
             Friedman, Mr. Pappas, Mr. Mills, Ms. Stevens, Mrs. 
             Hayes, Mr. Guest, Mr. Luttrell, Mr. Min, Mr. Foster, 
             Mrs. Trahan, Mr. Davis of Illinois, Mr. Gooden, Mr. 
             Raskin, Mr. Garcia of Illinois, Mr. Barrett, Mr. Dunn 
             of Florida, and Ms. Simon):
       H.R. 2102. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     provide for concurrent receipt of veterans' disability 
     compensation and retired pay for disability retirees with 
     combat-related disabilities, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Veterans' Affairs, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. BUDZINSKI (for herself, Ms. Hageman, Mr. Golden 
             of Maine, Mr. Bergman, and Mr. Pappas):
       H.R. 2103. A bill to modify the procedures used by the 
     United States Postal Service for the closure or consolidation 
     of any post office or any processing and distribution center, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. CAREY (for himself and Mrs. Beatty):
       H.R. 2104. A bill to establish a National STEM Week to 
     promote American innovation and enhance STEM education 
     pathways for all students, including those in rural, urban, 
     and underserved communities; to the Committee on Education 
     and Workforce.
           By Mr. CASTEN (for himself, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Ms. 
             Norton, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Ms. Garcia of Texas, Ms. 
             Titus, Ms. Scanlon, Ms. Stevens, Mr. Neguse, Mrs. 
             Fletcher, Mr. Magaziner, Ms. Balint, Ms. Velazquez, 
             Mr. Landsman, Ms. Chu, Mr. Quigley, Ms. Moore of 
             Wisconsin, Ms. Clarke of New York, Ms. Crockett, Mr. 
             Davis of Illinois, Mr. Goldman of New York, Ms. 
             Brown, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Auchincloss, Mr. 
             Krishnamoorthi, Mrs. Foushee, Ms. Schrier, Mr. 
             Connolly, and Ms. Brownley):
       H.R. 2105. A bill to address the importation and 
     proliferation of machinegun conversion devices; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
     Committees on the Judiciary, and Homeland Security, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. COSTA (for himself and Mr. Gray):
       H.R. 2106. A bill to establish a grant program to support 
     schools of medicine and schools of osteopathic medicine in 
     underserved areas; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. CRENSHAW (for himself, Mrs. Miller of Illinois, 
             Mrs. Miller-Meeks, Mr. Pfluger, Mr. Ellzey, Mr. Van 
             Drew, Mr. Green of Tennessee, Mr. Rouzer, Mrs. 
             Harshbarger, Mr. Grothman, Mr. Jackson of Texas, and 
             Mr. Scott Franklin of Florida):
       H.R. 2107. A bill to amend title III of the Public Health 
     Service Act to reauthorize the program of payments to 
     children's hospitals that operate graduate medical education 
     programs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. DAVIS of Illinois (for himself, Ms. Chu, Mr. 
             Evans of Pennsylvania, Mr. Gomez, Ms. Moore of 
             Wisconsin, and Mr. Thompson of Mississippi):
       H.R. 2108. A bill to prevent and address intentional misuse 
     of subrecipient TANF funds; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. DAVIS of North Carolina (for himself and Mr. 
             Nunn of Iowa):
       H.R. 2109. A bill to include cybersecurity technical 
     assistance in the national rural water and wastewater circuit 
     rider program of Department of Agriculture; to the Committee 
     on Agriculture.
           By Mrs. DINGELL (for herself, Mr. Crenshaw, Mr. Min, 
             Mr. Thanedar, Ms. Ross, Ms. Tlaib, Ms. Salinas, Mr. 
             Johnson of Georgia, Ms. Titus, Mr. Gottheimer, Ms. 
             Moore of Wisconsin, Ms. Sewell, Ms. Norton, and Ms. 
             Stevens):
       H.R. 2110. A bill to establish a process for survivors to 
     request the termination or disabling of connected vehicle 
     services that abusers misuse, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. DONALDS (for himself, Mr. Langworthy, Ms. Titus, 
             and Mr. Panetta):
       H.R. 2111. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to exempt the premium cigar industry from 
     certain regulations; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. DONALDS:
       H.R. 2112. A bill to give the force and effect of law to 
     the Executive Order issued on March 6, 2025 entitled 
     ``Establishment of the Strategic Bitcoin Reserve and United 
     States Digital Asset Stockpile''; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. DONALDS (for himself, Mr. Collins, Mr. Tiffany, 
             and Mr. Moore of Alabama):
       H.R. 2113. A bill to require agencies to use the term 
     ``Taiwan'' instead of ``Chinese Taipei'', and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. DUNN of Florida (for himself, Mr. Bilirakis, and 
             Mr. Moolenaar):

[[Page H1160]]

  

       H.R. 2114. A bill to amend titles XVIII and XIX of the 
     Social Security Act, title XXVII of the Public Health Service 
     Act, and the National Organ Transplant Act to prohibit 
     certain organ transplants with specified connections to the 
     People's Republic of China; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. DUNN of Florida (for himself, Mrs. Hinson, and 
             Mr. Moolenaar):
       H.R. 2115. A bill to prohibit funding for the Montreal 
     Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer and the 
     United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change until 
     China is no longer defined as a developing country; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. EVANS of Colorado (for himself, Mr. Pfluger, and 
             Mr. Magaziner):
       H.R. 2116. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to conduct a law enforcement support and counter 
     transnational repression public service announcement 
     campaign, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security, and in addition to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. FEENSTRA (for himself and Ms. Craig):
       H.R. 2117. A bill to amend the Federal Crop Insurance Act 
     to promote crop insurance support for beginning farmers and 
     ranchers and veteran farmers and ranchers, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. FITZPATRICK (for himself and Mr. Quigley):
       H.R. 2118. A bill to provide temporary Ukrainian guest 
     status for eligible aliens, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. FITZPATRICK:
       H.R. 2119. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     establish St. Patrick's Day as a Federal holiday; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. FITZPATRICK (for himself, Mr. Panetta, Mr. Joyce 
             of Pennsylvania, and Mr. Tonko):
       H.R. 2120. A bill to amend Title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to create a Radiation Oncology Case Rate Value 
     Based Payment Program exempt from budget neutrality 
     adjustment requirements, and to amend section 1128A of title 
     XI of the Social Security Act to create a new statutory 
     exception for the provision of free or discounted 
     transportation for radiation oncology patients to receive 
     radiation therapy services; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. FITZPATRICK (for himself, Mr. Neal, Mr. Kelly of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Moulton, Mr. 
             Connolly, Mr. Lawler, Mr. Tonko, Mr. Keating, Ms. 
             Scanlon, Mr. Suozzi, Mr. Deluzio, Ms. McBride, Ms. 
             Lee of Nevada, and Mr. Kennedy of New York):
       H.R. 2121. A bill to establish the Commission to study the 
     potential creation of a National Museum of Irish American 
     History, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources, and in addition to the Committee on House 
     Administration, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mrs. FOUSHEE (for herself and Mr. Miller of Ohio):
       H.R. 2122. A bill to strengthen and enhance the 
     competitiveness of cement, concrete, asphalt binder, and 
     asphalt mixture production in the United States through the 
     research, development, demonstration, and commercial 
     application of technologies to reduce emissions from cement, 
     concrete, asphalt binder, and asphalt mixture production, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. GARBARINO:
       H.R. 2123. A bill to amend the National Flood Insurance Act 
     of 1968 to reauthorize the National Flood Insurance Program; 
     to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. GILL of Texas (for himself, Mr. Brecheen, Mr. 
             Higgins of Louisiana, Ms. Greene of Georgia, and Mr. 
             Stutzman):
       H.R. 2124. A bill to require that a foreign purchaser of 
     agricultural land be subject to the same restrictions as are 
     applicable to United States citizens and nationals in the 
     home country of such foreign purchaser; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture.
           By Mr. GREEN of Tennessee (for himself, Mrs. Kiggans of 
             Virginia, and Mr. Davis of North Carolina):
       H.R. 2125. A bill to establish a National Commission on the 
     Maritime Industrial Base, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Armed Services, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana (for himself, Mr. Meuser, 
             Mr. Collins, Mr. Ogles, Mr. Self, Mr. Thompson of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Gill of Texas, Mr. Aderholt, Mr. 
             Perry, Mr. Crane, Mr. Cline, Mr. Sessions, Mr. Allen, 
             Mr. Ezell, Mr. Carter of Georgia, Mr. Webster of 
             Florida, Ms. Mace, Mr. Nehls, Mr. Crenshaw, Mr. 
             Fleischmann, Mr. Harris of Maryland, Mr. McClintock, 
             Mr. Biggs of Arizona, Mr. Palmer, Ms. De La Cruz, Mr. 
             Moolenaar, Mr. Ciscomani, Mr. Bentz, Mr. Fitzgerald, 
             Mr. Burchett, Mr. Johnson of South Dakota, Mr. Dunn 
             of Florida, Mr. Bilirakis, Ms. Hageman, Mr. Mann, Ms. 
             Boebert, Mrs. Biggs of South Carolina, Mr. Calvert, 
             Mr. Norman, Mr. Wittman, Mr. Onder, Mr. Green of 
             Tennessee, Mr. Buchanan, Mrs. Bice, Mr. Guest, Mr. 
             McGuire, Mr. Moore of Alabama, Mr. Bean of Florida, 
             Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Rouzer, Mr. Timmons, Mr. 
             Hunt, Mr. Smith of Nebraska, Mr. Burlison, Mrs. 
             Kiggans of Virginia, Ms. Maloy, Mr. Tiffany, Mr. 
             Haridopolos, Mr. Hudson, Mr. Pfluger, Mr. Knott, Mr. 
             Wilson of South Carolina, Mr. Smucker, Mr. Grothman, 
             Mr. Strong, Mr. Kustoff, Mr. Rutherford, Mr. Rogers 
             of Alabama, Mr. Donalds, Mr. Steube, Mr. Fry, Ms. 
             Letlow, Mr. Davidson, Ms. Foxx, Mr. Hurd of Colorado, 
             Mr. Cloud, Mrs. Houchin, Mr. Austin Scott of Georgia, 
             Mr. Hill of Arkansas, Mrs. Harshbarger, Mrs. Cammack, 
             Mr. Gooden, Mr. Fallon, Mr. Clyde, Mr. Womack, Mr. 
             Comer, Mr. Barrett, Mr. Kelly of Mississippi, Mr. 
             Williams of Texas, and Mrs. McClain):
       H.R. 2126. A bill to preserve open competition and Federal 
     Government neutrality towards the labor relations of Federal 
     Government contractors on Federal and federally funded 
     construction projects, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mrs. HINSON (for herself, Mr. Moolenaar, Mr. 
             Aderholt, Mr. Balderson, Mr. Dunn of Florida, Mr. 
             Nunn of Iowa, Mrs. Bice, and Mr. Ciscomani):
       H.R. 2127. A bill to impose sanctions with respect to 
     police departments in the People's Republic of China and 
     other persons seeking to establish a Chinese police presence 
     in the United States; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, 
     and in addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. JACKSON of Texas (for himself, Ms. De La Cruz, 
             Mr. Crenshaw, Mr. Luttrell, Mr. Ellzey, Mr. Pfluger, 
             Mr. Gooden, Mr. Babin, Mr. Gill of Texas, Mr. 
             Sessions, and Mr. Gosar):
       H.R. 2128. A bill to direct the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to make grants to certain border communities for the 
     purpose of reimbursing such communities for expenses related 
     to security measures along the United States land border with 
     Mexico, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland 
     Security.
           By Ms. JAYAPAL (for herself, Ms. Chu, Mr. Correa, Mr. 
             Espaillat, Mr. Garcia of Illinois, Mr. Goldman of New 
             York, Mr. Gomez, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. 
             McGovern, Mrs. McIver, Ms. Moore of Wisconsin, Ms. 
             Norton, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, Ms. Omar, Mrs. Ramirez, 
             Ms. Simon, Mr. Smith of Washington, Ms. Tlaib, Ms. 
             Tokuda, Mr. Vargas, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Davis of 
             Illinois, Ms. Garcia of Texas, Ms. Lofgren, Ms. 
             Ansari, and Ms. Clarke of New York):
       H.R. 2129. A bill to repeal the Alien Registration Act of 
     1940; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota (for himself, Mr. Zinke, 
             Mr. Cole, and Mr. Neguse):
       H.R. 2130. A bill to require the Bureau of Indian Affairs 
     to process and complete all mortgage packages associated with 
     residential and business mortgages on Indian land by certain 
     deadlines, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. KEAN (for himself and Ms. Lois Frankel of 
             Florida):
       H.R. 2131. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     authorize Secret Service to reimburse State and local 
     governments for the use of services, personnel, equipment, 
     and facilities; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. KING-HINDS:
       H.R. 2132. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     exempt Northern Mariana Islands from certain eligibility 
     requirements for essential air service program, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. LANGWORTHY:
       H.R. 2133. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to end the investment tax credit for offshore wind 
     facilities in the inland navigable waters of the United 
     States; to the Committee on Ways and Means.

[[Page H1161]]

  

           By Ms. LEE of Nevada (for herself and Mr. Amodei of 
             Nevada):
       H.R. 2134. A bill to provide for conservation and economic 
     development in the State of Nevada, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ (for herself and Mr. Fry):
       H.R. 2135. A bill to provide for an exchange of certain 
     Federal and non-Federal land in Artesia, New Mexico, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. LUNA (for herself and Mr. Nehls):
       H.R. 2136. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     provide for enhanced penalties for officers and employees of 
     the Department of Justice and the intelligence communities 
     who conceal, remove, or mutilate Government records, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. LUTTRELL (for himself, Mr. McGarvey, Mr. Weber 
             of Texas, and Mr. Pfluger):
       H.R. 2137. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     limit the authority of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to 
     deny the claim of a veteran for benefits under the laws 
     administered by such Secretary on the sole basis that such 
     veteran failed to appear for a medical examination associated 
     with such claim; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. LUTTRELL (for himself, Mr. McGarvey, Mr. Weber 
             of Texas, and Mr. Pfluger):
       H.R. 2138. A bill to increase, effective as of December 1, 
     2025, the rates of compensation for veterans with service-
     connected disabilities and the rates of dependency and 
     indemnity compensation for the survivors of certain disabled 
     veterans, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. MAGAZINER (for himself, Mr. Pfluger, Mr. Goldman 
             of New York, and Mr. Evans of Colorado):
       H.R. 2139. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to require the Secretary of Homeland Security to 
     prioritize strengthening of State and local law enforcement 
     capabilities to combat transnational repression and terrorism 
     threats related to transnational repression, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security, and in 
     addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. MATSUI (for herself, Mr. Calvert, Ms. Pingree, 
             and Mr. Langworthy):
       H.R. 2140. A bill to amend the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to 
     reauthorize the diesel emissions reduction program; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. McCLELLAN:
       H.R. 2141. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 409 South Hicks Street in 
     Lawrenceville, Virginia, as the ``James Solomon Russell Post 
     Office''; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Ms. McDONALD RIVET (for herself and Mr. Nunn of 
             Iowa):
       H.R. 2142. A bill to amend the Social Security Act to limit 
     the recovery of overpayments under titles II and XVI to a 
     ten-year period; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. MILLER of West Virginia:
       H.R. 2143. A bill to direct the Administrator of General 
     Services to establish a pilot program to sell motor vehicles 
     to certain small businesses that provide ground 
     transportation service, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mrs. MILLER-MEEKS:
       H.R. 2144. A bill to clarify that eRINs are not authorized 
     for purposes of satisfying the volume of renewable fuel that 
     needs to be contained in transportation fuel for purposes of 
     the Renewable Fuel Program, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mrs. MILLER-MEEKS (for herself, Ms. Sherrill, Mr. 
             Joyce of Ohio, Ms. Tenney, and Ms. McClellan):
       H.R. 2145. A bill to establish a pilot grant program to 
     improve recycling accessibility, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. MOORE of Wisconsin (for herself, Mr. Wied, Mr. 
             Steil, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Van Orden, Mr. Fitzgerald, Mr. 
             Grothman, Mr. Tiffany, and Ms. Van Duyne):
       H.R. 2146. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide refunds with respect to certain dyed fuels 
     that are exempt from tax and with respect to which tax was 
     previously paid; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. MOORE of West Virginia (for himself, Mr. Ogles, 
             Mr. Perry, Mr. Nehls, Mr. Gill of Texas, and Mr. 
             McDowell):
       H.R. 2147. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to prohibit the admission of Chinese nationals as 
     nonimmigrant students, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MORELLE (for himself and Mr. Ciscomani):
       H.R. 2148. A bill to expand medical, employment, and other 
     benefits for individuals serving as family caregivers for 
     certain veterans, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MOYLAN (for himself, Ms. Malliotakis, Mr. 
             LaMalfa, Mr. LaLota, Mr. Moulton, Ms. Titus, Ms. 
             Norton, Ms. Lee of Nevada, Ms. Tlaib, Ms. Chu, Mr. 
             Morelle, Ms. Meng, Mr. Davis of North Carolina, Mr. 
             Pocan, Mr. Swalwell, Ms. Lois Frankel of Florida, and 
             Ms. Hoyle of Oregon):
       H.R. 2149. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     expand eligibility for a presumption of service connection 
     for diseases associated with exposure to certain herbicide 
     agents for certain veterans who served in Guam; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. NEGUSE (for himself, Mr. Burchett, Ms. Kelly of 
             Illinois, Mr. Lawler, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, and Mr. 
             Fitzpatrick):
       H.R. 2150. A bill to direct the Attorney General to include 
     a data field in the National Missing and Unidentified Persons 
     System to indicate whether the last known location of a 
     missing person was confirmed or was suspected to have been on 
     Federal land, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. NORCROSS (for himself, Mr. Costa, and Mr. 
             Fitzpatrick):
       H.R. 2151. A bill to amend the Elementary and Secondary 
     Education Act of 1965 to authorize a grant program to support 
     students who have epilepsy or a seizure disorder; to the 
     Committee on Education and Workforce.
           By Mr. NUNN of Iowa (for himself and Mr. Himes):
       H.R. 2152. A bill to require a strategy to defend against 
     the economic and national security risks posed by the use of 
     artificial intelligence in the commission of financial 
     crimes, including fraud and the dissemination of 
     misinformation, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. NUNN of Iowa (for himself and Mr. Davis of North 
             Carolina):
       H.R. 2153. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to make the credit for the adoption of special needs 
     children refundable; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. OBERNOLTE (for himself and Ms. McClellan):
       H.R. 2154. A bill to establish a cybersecurity literacy 
     campaign, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. OGLES:
       H.R. 2155. A bill to amend the Right to Financial Privacy 
     Act of 1978 to preserve the confidentiality of certain 
     records, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services, and in addition to the Committees on the 
     Judiciary, Rules, the Budget, and Ways and Means, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. PANETTA (for himself, Mrs. Cammack, Ms. Lofgren, 
             and Mr. Austin Scott of Georgia):
       H.R. 2156. A bill to amend the Food Security Act of 1985 to 
     establish an exception to certain payment limitations in the 
     case of person or legal entity that derives income from 
     agriculture, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture.
           By Mr. PANETTA (for himself, Mr. Austin Scott of 
             Georgia, Mr. Moore of Utah, Mr. Kelly of Mississippi, 
             Mr. Hudson, Mr. Carbajal, Mr. Nunn of Iowa, Mr. 
             McCormick, Mr. Messmer, Mr. Schneider, Mr. Davis of 
             North Carolina, Mr. Van Orden, Mrs. Kiggans of 
             Virginia, Ms. Houlahan, Mr. Moulton, and Mr. Mills):
       H.R. 2157. A bill to provide that members of the Armed 
     Forces performing services in Kenya, Mali, Burkina Faso, and 
     Chad shall be entitled to tax benefits in the same manner as 
     if such services were performed in a combat zone; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. PFLUGER (for himself, Mr. Magaziner, Mr. Evans 
             of Colorado, Mr. Ogles, Mr. McCaul, Mr. Guest, and 
             Ms. Lee of Florida):
       H.R. 2158. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to authorize a dedicated transnational repression 
     working group within the Department of Homeland Security to 
     analyze and monitor transnational repression and terrorism 
     threats related to transnational repression, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security, and in 
     addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ROY (for himself, Mrs. McBath, Mr. Biggs of 
             Arizona, and Mr. Cohen):
       H.R. 2159. A bill to direct the Attorney General of the 
     United States to submit to the Congress a report on Federal 
     criminal offenses, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. SMITH of Nebraska (for himself, Ms. DelBene, Mr. 
             Fitzpatrick, Ms. Schrier, Ms. Tenney, and Ms. 
             Goodlander):

[[Page H1162]]

  

       H.R. 2160. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to support upgrades at existing hydroelectric dams in 
     order to increase clean energy production, improve the 
     resiliency and reliability of the United States electric 
     grid, enhance the health of the Nation's rivers and 
     associated wildlife habitats, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey (for himself, Mr. Harris of 
             Maryland, Mrs. Miller of Illinois, and Mr. Aderholt):
       H.R. 2161. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     prohibit certain types of human-animal chimeras; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. STEUBE (for himself, Mr. Panetta, and Mr. 
             Ezell):
       H.R. 2162. A bill to provide for the protection of the 
     integrity of honey marketed in the United States, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. STEVENS:
       H.R. 2163. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to waive early withdrawal penalties from retirement 
     accounts for victims of fraud; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. TURNER of Ohio:
       H.R. 2164. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to enter into an agreement with the Montgomery County 
     Land Bank for the transfer of certain land near Dayton 
     National Cemetery to the Department of Veterans Affairs, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. WALBERG (for himself, Mr. Fulcher, Mr. 
             Bilirakis, and Mr. Allen):
       H.R. 2165. A bill to amend the Clean Air Act to ensure that 
     tailpipe regulations do not limit the availability of new 
     motor vehicles; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. WIED (for himself, Mr. Golden of Maine, Mr. 
             Ezell, Mr. Tiffany, and Mr. Van Orden):
       H.R. 2166. A bill to amend title 23, United States Code, 
     with respect to vehicle weight limitations for certain 
     logging vehicles, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Ms. WILSON of Florida (for herself, Mr. Johnson of 
             Georgia, Mr. Carson, Ms. Tlaib, and Mrs. McIver):
       H.R. 2167. A bill to re-establish an advisory committee to 
     provide independent advice and recommendations to the 
     Secretary of Transportation regarding comprehensive, 
     interdisciplinary issues related to transportation from a 
     variety of stakeholders in transportation planning, design, 
     research, policy, and advocacy, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. YAKYM:
       H.R. 2168. A bill to direct the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services to conduct a study and submit to Congress a 
     report on the use of home cardiorespiratory monitors for 
     infants, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. FOSTER (for himself, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Carson, 
             Mr. Casten, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Fleischmann, Ms. Kaptur, 
             Ms. McCollum, Mr. Mullin, Ms. Rivas, and Ms. 
             Stevens):
       H. Res. 221. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of March 14, 2025, as ``National Pi Day''; to the 
     Committee on Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mr. ISSA:
       H. Res. 222. A resolution recognizing the patriotism and 
     contributions of veterans service organizations, veteran 
     advocacy groups, and volunteers; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. JAMES (for himself, Mr. Barrett, Mrs. Dingell, 
             Mr. Bergman, Ms. Scholten, Mr. Huizenga, Mr. 
             Thanedar, Mrs. McClain, Mr. Moolenaar, Ms. McDonald 
             Rivet, Ms. Stevens, and Mr. Walberg):
       H. Res. 223. A resolution honoring the 108th anniversary of 
     Selfridge Air National Guard Base and the contributions of 
     Selfridge Air National Guard Base to the military and 
     national security of the United States; to the Committee on 
     Armed Services.
           By Mrs. MILLER of Illinois (for herself, Mr. Harris of 
             Maryland, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Ogles, Mr. Babin, Mr. 
             Rose, and Mr. Crenshaw):
       H. Res. 224. A resolution expressing support for the 
     recognition of ``Detransition Awareness Day''; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. STEVENS:
       H. Res. 225. A resolution supporting the designation of 
     March as ``Autoimmune Awareness Month'' and supporting 
     efforts to increase awareness of autoimmune diseases and 
     increase funding for autoimmune disease research; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. WILLIAMS of Georgia (for herself, Mr. Jack, Mr. 
             Carter of Georgia, Mr. Bishop, Mr. Johnson of 
             Georgia, Mrs. McBath, Mr. McCormick, Mr. Collins, Mr. 
             Loudermilk, Mr. Allen, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, 
             Mr. Amodei of Nevada, Mr. Bergman, Mr. Carbajal, Mr. 
             Carter of Louisiana, Mr. Nehls, Mr. Soto, Mr. 
             Thanedar, Mr. Yakym, and Mr. Zinke):
       H. Res. 226. A resolution commemorating the centennial of 
     Delta Air Lines; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.

                          ____________________





