


[Page S1785]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]

  SA 1286. Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Ms. Hassan, Mr. King, Mr. Kaine, 
Ms. Hirono, and Mr. Schatz) submitted an amendment intended to be 
proposed by her to the bill H.R. 1986, to designate the facility of the 
United States Postal Service located at 620 East Pecan Boulevard in 
McAllen, Texas, as the ``Agent Raul H. Gonzalez Jr. Memorial Post 
Office Building''; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

     SEC. __. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO REDUCE THE WORKFORCE 
                   AT PUBLIC SHIPYARDS.

       (a) In General.--None of the funds made available under any 
     provision of any division of this Act may be used to reduce 
     the workforce at public shipyards, including probationary 
     employees.
       (b) Exemption.--The workforce at public shipyards and any 
     other positions at a public shipyard not specified in 
     subsection (c) shall be exempt from any workforce reductions 
     related to spending cuts, reprogramming of funds, or the 
     probationary status of employees.
       (c) Workforce at Public Shipyards Defined.--In this 
     section, the term ``workforce at public shipyards'' includes 
     any of the following positions at a public shipyard:
       (1) Welders.
       (2) Pipefitters.
       (3) Shipfitters.
       (4) Radiological technicians and engineers.
       (5) Engineers and engineer technicians.
       (6) Apprentices.
       (7) Positions supporting a workforce development pipeline.
       (8) Positions supporting nuclear maintenance and refueling.
       (9) Mechanics.
       (10) Painters and blasters.
       (11) Positions supporting maintenance and operations of 
     infrastructure.
       (12) Positions supporting implementation of the Shipyard 
     Infrastructure Optimization Program.
                                 ______





