


[Extensions of Remarks]
[Pages E214-E215]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   HONORING ELEANOR ``ELDIE'' ACHESON

                                 ______
                                 

                        HON. WILLIAM R. KEATING

                            of massachusetts

                    in the house of representatives

                         Friday, March 14, 2025

  Mr. KEATING. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in recognition of Eleanor 
``Eldie'' Acheson, who retired from Amtrak on February 1, 2025, after 
18 years of service to our country's passenger rail system.
  Coming from a long line of public servants, Eldie's family instilled 
in her the value of public service and an appreciation for her country 
from a young age. Eldie's father, David Campion Acheson, worked as an 
attorney for the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission and later as a U.S. 
attorney for the District of Columbia. Her grandfather, Dean Acheson, 
served as Secretary of State under President Truman. Her great-
grandfather, Louis Stanley, was a railroad attorney. Eldie's family 
history also includes painters, such as her grandmother, Alice Acheson, 
and great-great-grandfather, John Mix Stanley, the renowned painter of 
Native American life in the West.
  The principles of service and advocacy are values that Eldie has 
carried with her over the years. Throughout her career, Eldie strove to 
create greater opportunities for women and other underrepresented 
groups, dating back to her time as an undergraduate student at 
Wellesley College. Prior to 1969, Wellesley College never had a student 
commencement speaker. Although Wellesley's commencements included 
remarks by college administrators and special guests, students were not 
granted the opportunity to address their peers during graduation. Eldie 
spearheaded efforts to have a student commencement speaker. Despite 
facing opposition from administrators, Eldie's efforts ultimately 
proved successful, and her class was the first in Wellesley College's 
history to have a student commencement speaker. That speaker was then 
student-

[[Page E215]]

body president and future Secretary of State, U.S. Senator, and First 
Lady Hillary Rodham Clinton.
  Eldie's remarkable career was one of many firsts as she continuously 
broke down barriers. After graduating from George Washington University 
Law School, Eldie became the first female Associate, and later Partner, 
at the Boston-based law firm Ropes & Gray and served as the founding 
Director of Public Policy and Government Affairs at the National Gay 
and Lesbian Task Force, the nation's first LGBTQ civil rights advocacy 
organization. In 1993, President Clinton appointed Eldie as Assistant 
Attorney General for the Office of Policy Development at the U.S. 
Department of Justice, where she helped expand the number of female 
federal judges by over 80 percent. For her work, Eldie was awarded the 
American Bar Association's Margaret Brent Women Lawyers of Achievement 
Award.
  In 2007, Eldie began her tenure as General Counsel at Amtrak, where 
she sought to improve passenger experience, rail accessibility, and 
workplace inclusiveness. She played a key role in the creation of the 
Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act (PRIIA) of 2008, which 
directed Amtrak and the Federal Railroad Administration to develop 
minimum standards for passenger train on-time performance. Eldie also 
championed a company-wide effort to ensure Amtrak stations complied 
with the Americans with Disabilities Act. Her work led to new training 
for front-line employees and clear guidelines for Amtrak's ADA Stations 
Program. Additionally, Eldie sat on Amtrak's Executive Diversity 
Council, setting the strategic direction for diversity, inclusion, and 
belonging initiatives, and served as an executive sponsor of Express 
Pride, Amtrak's Employee Resource Group for LGBTQ+ employees and 
allies.
  On February 1, 2025, Eldie retired from Amtrak, leaving behind a 
legacy and career highlighted by her commitment to expanding 
opportunities for underrepresented groups, improving passenger rail, 
and continuing her family's legacy of public service. I wish Eldie many 
years of well-deserved happiness in retirement to spend hiking, playing 
tennis, and sailing on Cape Cod with her family and her wife, Emily.
  Mr. Speaker, I am proud to honor Eldie Acheson, and I ask that my 
colleagues join me in recognizing Eldie's career and thanking her for 
her years of service.

                          ____________________





