


[Page S1753]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]



                                  Iran

  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, last Tuesday, I released a committee 
report. The committee report was about my investigation about the 
Obama-Biden administration's obstruction of FBI law enforcement efforts 
against Iran. My report was based in large part on whistleblower 
disclosure and FBI records. The FBI records show that the Obama-Biden 
administration blocked arrests of indicted Iranian terrorists in 2015 
and 2016.
  Now, I know, to my constituents and my fellow Senators, that is 
history, but it is history that we don't want to repeat. The records 
show that interference was done against our own people to score 
political points for what ended up being the failed Iran nuclear deal. 
Specifically, then-Secretary of State Kerry actually stopped the FBI 
from doing its job, and the purpose of that interference was to appease 
Iran.
  One FBI agent emailed:

       We're all beside ourselves on asking the field to stand 
     down on a layup arrest, however, as it stands right now we 
     all have to sit back and wait until all the US and Iran 
     negotiations resolve themselves.

  The Obama-Biden administration made our country less safe. We don't 
want history to repeat itself.
  So, as you might expect, none of this changed until President Trump 
took office in his first term. Records show international banks stopped 
financing projects in Iran because of the incoming Trump Presidency. 
Whistleblower disclosures show the Trump administration brought 
criminals to justice when the Obama-Biden administration did not bring 
those same criminals to justice.
  So now we are in a new Trump administration. I encourage President 
Trump and his new Director of the FBI, Patel, to take heed of the 
positive impact in the first Trump term and let the FBI line agents do 
their jobs without political rot getting in the way.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.





