


[Pages S1772-S1773]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA LOCAL FUNDS ACT, 2025

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the Senate will 
proceed to the consideration of S. 1077, which the clerk will report.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read as follows:

       A bill (S. 1077) to approve local funds for the District of 
     Columbia for fiscal year 2025, in accordance with the Fiscal 
     Year 2025 Local Budget Act of 2024, and to establish 
     provisions for the use of such funds.

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. There will now be up to 10 minutes of debate, 
equally divided.
  The Senator from Maine.
  Ms. COLLINS. Madam President, I am pleased to introduce this bill 
with Senators Van Hollen, Murray, Alsobrooks, Warner, and Kaine. It has 
been endorsed by President Trump and also by the chairman of the House 
Appropriations Committee,   Tom Cole.
  This bill would simply fix a mistake in the House CR that prevents 
the District of Columbia from spending its own tax dollars as part of 
its budget, which Congress routinely approves. Congress approves the 
authorization of the expenditure of DC local funds, which are paid for 
by DC tax revenues.
  The first CR that we enacted last year included language to approve 
the DC's fiscal year 2025 budget, and that language was continued in 
the second CR. However, the House did not extend this anomaly in the 
yearlong CR. As a result, unless this bill is passed, DC would have to 
operate under its fiscal year 2024 budget for the remainder of 2025, 
potentially requiring $1.1 billion in local spending cuts.
  Reducing DC's local funding expenditures will not result in a dollar 
of Federal savings. Since October 1 of 2024, the District has been 
operating under and spending at its approved level for the fiscal year 
2025 budget. According to the CBO, this bill does not have any 
budgetary cost to the Federal Government. There are no Federal dollars 
involved. The issue here is just allowing the DC Government to proceed 
to spend its own tax revenues.
  Accordingly, I urge all of my colleagues to support this measure to 
correct a true inequity.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Maryland.
  Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Madam President, I want to thank Senator Collins for 
working on an emergency basis to fix this problem in the House bill. 
She said it well, so I only want to emphasize two points.
  One, what the House did does not save the Federal taxpayer one 
penny--not one penny. What it does is cap what the District of Columbia 
can spend in using its own money and based on its own decisions. So 
taxpayers are not saved a dime by what they did nor will they gain by 
our fix. The people of the District of Columbia should be able to make 
these decisions, and if they are having to make a budget with $1 
billion less, it will mean fewer resources, fewer firefighters, and 
less money for schools.
  So I want to thank the Senator from Maine for working with us on 
this. I am pleased to be joined by my colleagues from Virginia and 
Maryland--Senator Warner, Senator Alsobrooks, and Senator Kaine. We 
urge its adoption unanimously.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Virginia.
  Mr. WARNER. Madam President, I also want to thank my dear friend from 
Maine. She is moving back up much higher on all of our lists for being 
willing to step up and help correct this.
  You know, we all want what the President wants. The President wants 
our Nation's Capital to be the safest, cleanest, most welcoming city. 
DC gets 26 million tourists every year. In 2026, we are going to 
celebrate 250 years. We want to show off DC and the whole region. If we 
allow this mistake to take place, DC will lay off cops. It will close 
schools. It will shut down our trash removal. For those of us in the 
region who use the Metro, there will be dramatic cutbacks.
  Let's correct this mistake. Let's make sure that we show on our 250th 
anniversary the cleanest, safest city in America. This will be a giant 
step toward that.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Maryland.
  Ms. ALSOBROOKS. Madam President, I, too, want to thank Senators 
Collins, Van Hollen, Warner, and Kaine. I am glad we can work together 
in this bipartisan way to ensure fairness for the residents of 
Washington, DC.
  I rise today to speak for the over 700,000 DC residents who do not 
have representation in this body. They are our friends and our 
neighbors. Beyond those who work in DC, Maryland partners with DC on 
resources like emergency services, police, water, and more. This 
bipartisan, stand-alone bill ensures that DC tax dollars stay in DC. 
Again, these funds that have been cut are tax dollars that have 
literally already been paid by DC residents. All this bill does is to 
continue to ensure that DC receives what it is owed. So I urge all of 
my colleagues today to join me in voting yes.
  Thank you.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Virginia.
  Mr. KAINE. Madam President, I can make it fast or slow.
  I am joining all of my colleagues to advocate for this bill.
  One-third of the Virginia population is a resident of the DC metro 
area and enjoys this Capital, and 150,000 Virginians come to work in DC 
every day. They want DC police and services to be well funded. Please 
support this bill. Thank you.


                             Vote on S.1077

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the bill having been 
read the third time, the question is, Shall the bill pass?
  The bill (S. 1077) was passed, as follows:

                                S. 1077

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``District of Columbia Local 
     Funds Act, 2025''.

     SEC. 2. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA LOCAL FUNDS.

       Local funds are appropriated for the District of Columbia 
     for the current fiscal year out of the General Fund of the 
     District of Columbia (``General Fund'') for programs and 
     activities set forth in the Fiscal Year 2025 Local Budget Act 
     of 2024 (D.C. Law 25-218) and at rates set forth under such 
     Act, as amended as of the date of enactment of this Act:  
     Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
     except as provided in section 450A of the District of 
     Columbia Home Rule Act (section 1-204.50a, D.C. Official 
     Code), sections 816 and 817 of the Financial Services and 
     General Government Appropriations Act, 2009 (secs. 47-369.01 
     and 47-369.02, D.C. Official Code), and provisions of this 
     Act, the total amount appropriated in this Act for operating 
     expenses for the District of Columbia for fiscal year 2025 by 
     this section shall not exceed the estimates included in the 
     Fiscal Year 2025 Local Budget Act of 2024, as amended as of 
     the date of enactment of this Act or the sum of the total 
     revenues of the District of Columbia for such fiscal year:  
     Provided further, That the amount appropriated may be 
     increased by proceeds of one-time transactions, which are 
     expended for emergency or unanticipated operating or capital 
     needs:  Provided further, That such increases shall be 
     approved by enactment of local District law and shall comply 
     with all reserve requirements contained

[[Page S1773]]

     in the District of Columbia Home Rule Act:  Provided further, 
     That the Chief Financial Officer of the District of Columbia 
     shall take such steps as are necessary to assure that the 
     District of Columbia meets these requirements, including the 
     apportioning by the Chief Financial Officer of the 
     appropriations and funds made available to the District 
     during fiscal year 2025, except that the Chief Financial 
     Officer may not reprogram for operating expenses any funds 
     derived from bonds, notes, or other obligations issued for 
     capital projects.

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the motion to 
reconsider is considered made and laid upon the table.
  The majority leader.


                          Waiving Quorum Calls

  Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the 
mandatory quorum calls with respect to the Phelan and Landau 
nominations be waived.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________





