


[Pages S1762-S1768]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          LEGISLATIVE SESSION

                                 ______
                                 

          HALT ALL LETHAL TRAFFICKING OF FENTANYL ACT--Resumed

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the Senate will 
resume legislative session and resume consideration of S. 331, which 
the clerk will report.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read as follows:

       A bill (S. 331) to amend the Controlled Substances Act with 
     respect to the scheduling of fentanyl-related substances, and 
     for other purposes.

  Pending:


[[Page S1763]]


  

       Thune (for Grassley) amendment No. 1237, of a perfecting 
     nature.

  Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to consider the bill, which had been 
reported from the Committee on the Judiciary with an amendment to 
strike all after the enacting clause and insert in lieu thereof the 
following:

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Halt All Lethal Trafficking 
     of Fentanyl Act'' or the ``HALT Fentanyl Act''.

     SEC. 2. CLASS SCHEDULING OF FENTANYL-RELATED SUBSTANCES.

       Section 202(c) of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 
     812(c)) is amended by adding at the end of schedule I the 
     following:
       ``(e)(1) Unless specifically exempted or unless listed in 
     another schedule, any material, compound, mixture, or 
     preparation which contains any quantity of a fentanyl-related 
     substance, or which contains the salts, isomers, and salts of 
     isomers of a fentanyl-related substance whenever the 
     existence of such salts, isomers, and salts of isomers is 
     possible within the specific chemical designation.
       ``(2) For purposes of paragraph (1), except as provided in 
     paragraph (3), the term `fentanyl-related substance' means 
     any substance that is structurally related to fentanyl by 1 
     or more of the following modifications:
       ``(A) By replacement of the phenyl portion of the phenethyl 
     group by any monocycle, whether or not further substituted in 
     or on the monocycle.
       ``(B) By substitution in or on the phenethyl group with 
     alkyl, alkenyl, alkoxyl, hydroxyl, halo, haloalkyl, amino, or 
     nitro groups.
       ``(C) By substitution in or on the piperidine ring with 
     alkyl, alkenyl, alkoxyl, ester, ether, hydroxyl, halo, 
     haloalkyl, amino, or nitro groups.
       ``(D) By replacement of the aniline ring with any aromatic 
     monocycle whether or not further substituted in or on the 
     aromatic monocycle.
       ``(E) By replacement of the N-propionyl group with another 
     acyl group.
       ``(3) A substance that satisfies the definition of the term 
     `fentanyl-related substance' in paragraph (2) shall 
     nonetheless not be treated as a fentanyl-related substance 
     subject to this schedule if the substance--
       ``(A) is controlled by action of the Attorney General under 
     section 201; or
       ``(B) is otherwise expressly listed in a schedule other 
     than this schedule.
       ``(4)(A) The Attorney General may by order publish in the 
     Federal Register a list of substances that satisfy the 
     definition of the term `fentanyl-related substance' in 
     paragraph (2).
       ``(B) The absence of a substance from a list published 
     under subparagraph (A) does not negate the control status of 
     the substance under this schedule if the substance satisfies 
     the definition of the term `fentanyl-related substance' in 
     paragraph (2).''.

     SEC. 3. REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO RESEARCH.

       (a) Alternative Registration Process for Schedule I 
     Research.--Section 303 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 
     U.S.C. 823) is amended--
       (1) by redesignating the second subsection (l) (relating to 
     required training for prescribers) as subsection (m); and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(n) Special Provisions for Practitioners Conducting 
     Certain Research With Schedule I Controlled Substances.--
       ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding subsection (g), a 
     practitioner may conduct research described in paragraph (2) 
     of this subsection with 1 or more schedule I substances in 
     accordance with subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph (3) of 
     this subsection.
       ``(2) Research subject to expedited procedures.--Research 
     described in this paragraph is research that--
       ``(A) is with respect to a drug that is the subject of an 
     investigational use exemption under section 505(i) of the 
     Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355(i)); or
       ``(B) is--
       ``(i) conducted by the Department of Health and Human 
     Services, the Department of Defense, or the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs; or
       ``(ii) funded partly or entirely by a grant, contract, 
     cooperative agreement, or other transaction from the 
     Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of 
     Defense, or the Department of Veterans Affairs.
       ``(3) Expedited procedures.--
       ``(A) Researcher with a current schedule i or ii research 
     registration.--
       ``(i) In general.--If a practitioner is registered to 
     conduct research with a controlled substance in schedule I or 
     II, the practitioner may conduct research under this 
     subsection on and after the date that is 30 days after the 
     date on which the practitioner sends a notice to the Attorney 
     General containing the following information, with respect to 
     each substance with which the practitioner will conduct the 
     research:

       ``(I) The chemical name of the substance.
       ``(II) The quantity of the substance to be used in the 
     research.
       ``(III) Demonstration that the research is in the category 
     described in paragraph (2), which demonstration may be 
     satisfied--

       ``(aa) in the case of a grant, contract, cooperative 
     agreement, or other transaction, or intramural research 
     project, by identifying the sponsoring agency and supplying 
     the number of the grant, contract, cooperative agreement, 
     other transaction, or project; or
       ``(bb) in the case of an application under section 505(i) 
     of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 
     355(i)), by supplying the application number and the sponsor 
     of record on the application.

       ``(IV) Demonstration that the researcher is authorized to 
     conduct research with respect to the substance under the laws 
     of the State in which the research will take place.

       ``(ii) Verification of information by hhs or va.--Upon 
     request from the Attorney General, the Secretary of Health 
     and Human Services, the Department of Defense, or the 
     Secretary of Veterans Affairs, as appropriate, shall verify 
     information submitted by an applicant under clause (i)(III).
       ``(B) Researcher without a current schedule i or ii 
     research registration.--
       ``(i) In general.--If a practitioner is not registered to 
     conduct research with a controlled substance in schedule I or 
     II, the practitioner may send a notice to the Attorney 
     General containing the information listed in subparagraph 
     (A)(i), with respect to each substance with which the 
     practitioner will conduct the research.
       ``(ii) Attorney general action.--The Attorney General 
     shall--

       ``(I) treat notice received under clause (i) as a 
     sufficient application for a research registration; and
       ``(II) not later than 45 days of receiving such a notice 
     that contains all information required under subparagraph 
     (A)(i)--

       ``(aa) register the applicant; or
       ``(bb) serve an order to show cause upon the applicant in 
     accordance with section 304(c).
       ``(4) Electronic submissions.--The Attorney General shall 
     provide a means to permit a practitioner to submit a 
     notification under paragraph (3) electronically.
       ``(5) Limitation on amounts.--A practitioner conducting 
     research with a schedule I substance under this subsection 
     may only possess the amounts of schedule I substance 
     identified in--
       ``(A) the notification to the Attorney General under 
     paragraph (3); or
       ``(B) a supplemental notification that the practitioner may 
     send if the practitioner needs additional amounts for the 
     research, which supplemental notification shall include--
       ``(i) the name of the practitioner;
       ``(ii) the additional quantity needed of the substance; and
       ``(iii) an attestation that the research to be conducted 
     with the substance is consistent with the scope of the 
     research that was the subject of the notification under 
     paragraph (3).
       ``(6) Importation and exportation requirements not 
     affected.--Nothing in this subsection alters the requirements 
     of part A of title III, regarding the importation and 
     exportation of controlled substances.
       ``(7) Inspector general report.--Not later than 1 year 
     after the date of enactment of the Halt All Lethal 
     Trafficking of Fentanyl Act, the Inspector General of the 
     Department of Justice shall complete a study, and submit to 
     Congress a report thereon, about research described in 
     paragraph (2) of this subsection with fentanyl.''.
       (b) Separate Registrations Not Required for Additional 
     Researcher in Same Institution.--
       (1) In general.--Section 302(c) of the Controlled 
     Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 822(c)) is amended by adding at the 
     end the following:
       ``(4) An agent or employee of a research institution that 
     is conducting research with a controlled substance if--
       ``(A) the agent or employee is acting within the scope of 
     the professional practice of the agent or employee;
       ``(B) another agent or employee of the institution is 
     registered to conduct research with a controlled substance in 
     the same schedule;
       ``(C) the researcher who is so registered--
       ``(i) informs the Attorney General of the name, position 
     title, and employing institution of the agent or employee who 
     is not separately registered;
       ``(ii) authorizes that agent or employee to perform 
     research under the registration of the registered researcher; 
     and
       ``(iii) affirms that any act taken by that agent or 
     employee involving a controlled substance shall be 
     attributable to the registered researcher, as if the 
     researcher had directly committed the act, for purposes of 
     any proceeding under section 304(a) to suspend or revoke the 
     registration of the registered researcher; and
       ``(D) the Attorney General does not, within 30 days of 
     receiving the information, authorization, and affirmation 
     described in subparagraph (C), refuse, for a reason listed in 
     section 304(a), to allow the agent or employee to possess the 
     substance without a separate registration.''.
       (2) Technical correction.--Section 302(c)(3) of the 
     Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 822(c)(3)) is amended by 
     striking ``(25)'' and inserting ``(27)''.
       (c) Single Registration for Related Research Sites.--
     Section 302(e) of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 
     822(e)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
       ``(4)(A) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), a person registered 
     to conduct research with a controlled substance under section 
     303(g) may conduct the research under a single registration 
     if--
       ``(i) the research occurs exclusively on sites all of which 
     are--
       ``(I) within the same city or county; and
       ``(II) under the control of the same institution, 
     organization, or agency; and
       ``(ii) before commencing the research, the researcher 
     notifies the Attorney General of each site where--
       ``(I) the research will be conducted; or
       ``(II) the controlled substance will be stored or 
     administered.
       ``(B) A site described in subparagraph (A) shall be 
     included in a registration described in that subparagraph 
     only if the researcher has notified the Attorney General of 
     the site--
       ``(i) in the application for the registration; or
       ``(ii) before the research is conducted, or before the 
     controlled substance is stored or administered, at the site.

[[Page S1764]]

       ``(C) The Attorney General may, in consultation with the 
     Secretary, issue regulations addressing, with respect to 
     research sites described in subparagraph (A)--
       ``(i) the manner in which controlled substances may be 
     delivered to the research sites;
       ``(ii) the storage and security of controlled substances at 
     the research sites;
       ``(iii) the maintenance of records for the research sites; 
     and
       ``(iv) any other matters necessary to ensure effective 
     controls against diversion at the research sites.''.
       (d) New Inspection Not Required in Certain Situations.--
     Section 302(f) of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 
     822(f)) is amended--
       (1) by striking ``(f) The'' and inserting ``(f)(1) The''; 
     and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(2)(A) If a person is registered to conduct research with 
     a controlled substance and applies for a registration, or for 
     a modification of a registration, to conduct research with a 
     second controlled substance that is in the same schedule as 
     the first controlled substance, or is in a schedule with a 
     higher numerical designation than the schedule of the first 
     controlled substance, a new inspection by the Attorney 
     General of the registered location is not required.
       ``(B) Nothing in subparagraph (A) shall prohibit the 
     Attorney General from conducting an inspection that the 
     Attorney General determines necessary to ensure that a 
     registrant maintains effective controls against diversion.''.
       (e) Continuation of Research on Substances Newly Added to 
     Schedule I.--Section 302 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 
     U.S.C. 822) is amended by adding at the end the following:
       ``(h) Continuation of Research on Substances Newly Added to 
     Schedule I.--If a person is conducting research on a 
     substance when the substance is added to schedule I, and the 
     person is already registered to conduct research with a 
     controlled substance in schedule I--
       ``(1) not later than 90 days after the scheduling of the 
     newly scheduled substance, the person shall submit a 
     completed application for registration or modification of 
     existing registration, to conduct research on the substance, 
     in accordance with regulations issued by the Attorney General 
     for purposes of this paragraph;
       ``(2) the person may, notwithstanding subsections (a) and 
     (b), continue to conduct the research on the substance 
     until--
       ``(A) the person withdraws the application described in 
     paragraph (1) of this subsection; or
       ``(B) the Attorney General serves on the person an order to 
     show cause proposing the denial of the application under 
     section 304(c);
       ``(3) if the Attorney General serves an order to show cause 
     as described in paragraph (2)(B) and the person requests a 
     hearing, the hearing shall be held on an expedited basis and 
     not later than 45 days after the request is made, except that 
     the hearing may be held at a later time if so requested by 
     the person; and
       ``(4) if the person sends a copy of the application 
     described in paragraph (1) to a manufacturer or distributor 
     of the substance, receipt of the copy by the manufacturer or 
     distributor shall constitute sufficient evidence that the 
     person is authorized to receive the substance.''.
       (f) Treatment of Certain Manufacturing Activities as 
     Coincident to Research.--Section 302 of the Controlled 
     Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 822), as amended by subsection (e), 
     is amended by adding at the end the following:
       ``(i) Treatment of Certain Manufacturing Activities as 
     Coincident to Research.--
       ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (3), a 
     person who is registered to perform research on a controlled 
     substance may perform manufacturing activities with small 
     quantities of that substance, including activities described 
     in paragraph (2), without being required to obtain a 
     manufacturing registration, if--
       ``(A) the activities are performed for the purpose of the 
     research; and
       ``(B) the activities and the quantities of the substance 
     involved in the activities are stated in--
       ``(i) a notification submitted to the Attorney General 
     under section 303(n);
       ``(ii) a research protocol filed with an application for 
     registration approval under section 303(g); or
       ``(iii) a notification to the Attorney General that 
     includes--

       ``(I) the name of the registrant; and
       ``(II) an attestation that the research to be conducted 
     with the small quantities of manufactured substance is 
     consistent with the scope of the research that is the basis 
     for the registration.

       ``(2) Activities included.--Activities permitted under 
     paragraph (1) include--
       ``(A) processing the substance to create extracts, 
     tinctures, oils, solutions, derivatives, or other forms of 
     the substance consistent with--
       ``(i) the information provided as part of a notification 
     submitted to the Attorney General under section 303(n); or
       ``(ii) a research protocol filed with an application for 
     registration approval under section 303(g); and
       ``(B) dosage form development studies performed for the 
     purpose of requesting an investigational new drug exemption 
     under section 505(i) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic 
     Act (21 U.S.C. 355(i)).
       ``(3) Exception regarding marihuana.--The authority under 
     paragraph (1) to manufacture substances does not include the 
     authority to grow marihuana.''.
       (g) Transparency Regarding Special Procedures.--Section 303 
     of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 823), as amended 
     by subsection (a), is amended by adding at the end the 
     following:
       ``(o) Transparency Regarding Special Procedures.--
       ``(1) In general.--If the Attorney General determines, with 
     respect to a controlled substance, that an application by a 
     practitioner to conduct research with the substance should be 
     considered under a process, or subject to criteria, different 
     from the process or criteria applicable to applications to 
     conduct research with other controlled substances in the same 
     schedule, the Attorney General shall make public, including 
     by posting on the website of the Drug Enforcement 
     Administration--
       ``(A) the identities of all substances for which such 
     determinations have been made;
       ``(B) the process and criteria that shall be applied to 
     applications to conduct research with those substances; and
       ``(C) how the process and criteria described in 
     subparagraph (B) differ from the process and criteria 
     applicable to applications to conduct research with other 
     controlled substances in the same schedule.
       ``(2) Timing of posting.--The Attorney General shall make 
     information described in paragraph (1) public upon making a 
     determination described in that paragraph, regardless of 
     whether a practitioner has submitted such an application at 
     that time.''.

     SEC. 4. TECHNICAL CORRECTION ON CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES 
                   DISPENSING.

       Effective as if included in the enactment of Public Law 
     117-328--
       (1) section 1252(a) of division FF of Public Law 117-328 
     (136 Stat. 5681) is amended, in the matter being inserted 
     into section 302(e) of the Controlled Substances Act, by 
     striking ``303(g)'' and inserting ``303(h)'';
       (2) section 1262 of division FF of Public Law 117-328 (136 
     Stat. 5681) is amended--
       (A) in subsection (a)--
       (i) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
     ``303(g)'' and inserting ``303(h)'';
       (ii) in the matter being stricken by subsection (a)(2), by 
     striking ``(g)(1)'' and inserting ``(h)(1)''; and
       (iii) in the matter being inserted by subsection (a)(2), by 
     striking ``(g) Practitioners'' and inserting ``(h) 
     Practitioners''; and
       (B) in subsection (b)--
       (i) in the matter being stricken by paragraph (1), by 
     striking ``303(g)(1)'' and inserting ``303(h)(1)'';
       (ii) in the matter being inserted by paragraph (1), by 
     striking ``303(g)'' and inserting ``303(h)'';
       (iii) in the matter being stricken by paragraph (2)(A), by 
     striking ``303(g)(2)'' and inserting ``303(h)(2)'';
       (iv) in the matter being stricken by paragraph (3), by 
     striking ``303(g)(2)(B)'' and inserting ``303(h)(2)(B)'';
       (v) in the matter being stricken by paragraph (5), by 
     striking ``303(g)'' and inserting ``303(h)''; and
       (vi) in the matter being stricken by paragraph (6), by 
     striking ``303(g)'' and inserting ``303(h)''; and
       (3) section 1263(b) of division FF of Public Law 117-328 
     (136 Stat. 5685) is amended--
       (A) by striking ``303(g)(2)'' and inserting ``303(h)(2)''; 
     and
       (B) by striking ``(21 U.S.C. 823(g)(2))'' and inserting 
     ``(21 U.S.C. 823(h)(2))''.

     SEC. 5. RULEMAKING.

       (a) Interim Final Rules.--The Attorney General--
       (1) shall, not later than 6 months after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, issue rules to implement this Act and 
     the amendments made by this Act; and
       (2) may issue the rules under paragraph (1) as interim 
     final rules.
       (b) Procedure for Final Rule.--
       (1) Effectiveness of interim final rules.--A rule issued by 
     the Attorney General as an interim final rule under 
     subsection (a) shall become immediately effective as an 
     interim final rule without requiring the Attorney General to 
     demonstrate good cause therefor, notwithstanding subparagraph 
     (B) of the undesignated matter following paragraph (4) of 
     section 553(b) of title 5, United States Code.
       (2) Opportunity for comment and hearing.--An interim final 
     rule issued under subsection (a) shall give interested 
     persons the opportunity to comment and to request a hearing.
       (3) Final rule.--After the conclusion of such proceedings, 
     the Attorney General shall issue a final rule to implement 
     this Act and the amendments made by this Act in accordance 
     with section 553 of title 5, United States Code.

     SEC. 6. PENALTIES.

       (a) In General.--Section 401(b)(1) of the Controlled 
     Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 841(b)(1)) is amended--
       (1) in subparagraph (A)(vi), by inserting ``or a fentanyl-
     related substance'' after ``any analogue of N-phenyl-N-[1-(2-
     phenylethyl)-4-piperidinyl] propanamide''; and
       (2) in subparagraph (B)(vi), by inserting ``or a fentanyl-
     related substance'' after ``any analogue of N-phenyl-N-[1-(2-
     phenylethyl)-4-piperidinyl] propanamide''.
       (b) Importation and Exportation.--Section 1010(b) of the 
     Controlled Substances Import and Export Act (21 U.S.C. 
     960(b)) is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1)(F), by inserting ``or a fentanyl-
     related substance'' after ``any analogue of N-phenyl-N-[1-(2-
     phenylethyl)-4-piperidinyl] propanamide''; and
       (2) in paragraph (2)(F), by inserting ``or a fentanyl-
     related substance'' after ``any analogue of N-phenyl-N-[1-(2-
     phenylethyl)-4-piperidinyl] propanamide''.
       (c) Definition of Fentanyl-related Substance.--Section 102 
     of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802) is amended 
     by adding at the end the following:
       ``(60) The term `fentanyl-related substance' has the 
     meaning given the term in subsection (e)(2) of schedule I of 
     section 202(c).''.

     SEC. 7. APPLICABILITY; OTHER MATTERS.

       (a) In General.--Irrespective of the date on which the 
     rules required by section 5 are finalized, the amendments 
     made by this Act apply

[[Page S1765]]

     beginning as of the date of enactment of this Act.
       (b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in the amendments made 
     by this Act may be construed as evidence that, in applying 
     sections 401(b)(1) of the Controlled Substances Act (21 
     U.S.C. 841(b)(1)) and 1010(b) of the Controlled Substances 
     Import and Export Act (21 U.S.C. 960(b)) with respect to 
     conduct occurring before the date of the enactment of this 
     Act, a fentanyl-related substance (as defined by such 
     amendments) is not an analogue of N-phenyl-N-[1-(2-
     phenylethyl)-4-piperidinyl] propanamide.
       (c) Sense of Congress.--Congress agrees with the 
     interpretation of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 
     801 et seq.) in United States v. McCray, 346 F. Supp. 3d 363 
     (W.D.N.Y. 2018).

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The majority whip.
  Mr. BARRASSO. I ask unanimous consent that the order of yesterday be 
amended so that the committee-reported substitute amendment to S. 331 
be agreed to with all other remaining provisions in effect.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Under the previous order, all postcloture time on the bill is 
expired; amendment No. 1237 is withdrawn; the committee-reported 
substitute is agreed to; and the clerk will read the bill by title for 
the third time.
  The amendment (No. 1237) was withdrawn.
  The committee-reported amendment, in the nature of a substitute, was 
agreed to.
  The bill, as amended, was ordered to be engrossed for a third reading 
and was read the third time.


                             Vote on S. 331

  Mr. BARRASSO. I ask for the yeas and nays.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a sufficient second?
  There appears to be a sufficient second.
  The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk called the roll.
  The result was announced--yeas 84, nays 16, as follows:

                      [Rollcall Vote No. 127 Leg.]

                                YEAS--84

     Baldwin
     Banks
     Barrasso
     Bennet
     Blackburn
     Blumenthal
     Boozman
     Britt
     Budd
     Cantwell
     Capito
     Cassidy
     Collins
     Coons
     Cornyn
     Cortez Masto
     Cotton
     Cramer
     Crapo
     Cruz
     Curtis
     Daines
     Durbin
     Ernst
     Fetterman
     Fischer
     Gallego
     Gillibrand
     Graham
     Grassley
     Hagerty
     Hassan
     Hawley
     Heinrich
     Hickenlooper
     Hoeven
     Husted
     Hyde-Smith
     Johnson
     Justice
     Kaine
     Kelly
     Kennedy
     Kim
     King
     Klobuchar
     Lankford
     Lee
     Lujan
     Lummis
     Marshall
     McConnell
     McCormick
     Moody
     Moran
     Moreno
     Mullin
     Murkowski
     Murray
     Ossoff
     Paul
     Peters
     Reed
     Ricketts
     Risch
     Rosen
     Rounds
     Schatz
     Schmitt
     Schumer
     Scott (FL)
     Scott (SC)
     Shaheen
     Sheehy
     Slotkin
     Smith
     Sullivan
     Thune
     Tillis
     Tuberville
     Warner
     Whitehouse
     Wicker
     Young

                                NAYS--16

     Alsobrooks
     Blunt Rochester
     Booker
     Duckworth
     Hirono
     Markey
     Merkley
     Murphy
     Padilla
     Sanders
     Schiff
     Van Hollen
     Warnock
     Warren
     Welch
     Wyden
  The bill (S. 331), as amended, was passed.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. McCORMICK). Under the previous order, the 
motion to reconsider is considered made and laid upon the table.
  The Senator from North Carolina.
  Mr. TILLIS. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that there be up 
to 20 minutes of debate under the control of Senator Paul for debate 
only.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. At this time?
  Mr. COTTON. Yes.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The Senator from Kentucky.


                           Government Funding

  Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, President Trump has pledged to balance the 
budget. I want to help him. I want to help him with this task. But to 
balance the budget requires much less spending than this current bill 
entails.
  Our national debt now exceeds $36 trillion. That is 124 percent of 
the size of our economy. That should not be a surprise. We are adding 
$2 trillion every year to the debt, this year included.
  Critics of excessive Federal spending have rightly argued that we 
should return spending to prepandemic levels. This is something I could 
support. The spending bill before us, though, spends $400 billion more 
than we were spending before the pandemic. Spending went through the 
roof during the pandemic, and it never came back down, and the deficits 
are out of control. In order for this bill to get back to prepandemic 
levels, it would have to be $400 billion less. That is something I 
could support.
  Three months ago, when the current continuing resolution was passed 
at the end of last year, we were told that we just needed to clear the 
decks. President Trump was going to come in, the Republicans would be 
in charge, and then everything would be OK. Just wait. Pass it. Pass it 
along in September. Come March, Republicans will be in charge, and 
something will happen.
  Yet the bill before us doesn't change anything. The bill before us 
keeps the same Biden spending levels.
  We were told with relentless fury that we would fight for the 
taxpayers come spring, and we were given a bill that doesn't change. It 
doesn't change the course of accumulating $2 trillion in debt every 
year.
  The powers that be, I believe, waved the white flag of surrender when 
they presented the American people with this bill that fails to make 
the cuts that are necessary to slow down the accumulation of our debt.
  The malpractice is made even worse this time around. Presidents of 
both parties pay lipservice to the idea that the national debt must be 
addressed. Despite tough talk, deficits and the debt inevitably keep 
rising. We now have over $36 trillion in debt.
  Unlike past Presidents, though, President Trump created the 
Department of Government Efficiency--affectionately known as DOGE--to 
identify wasteful programs and eliminate them. Despite DOGE working 
around the clock identifying appalling waste of taxpayers' dollars, 
this bill continues to fund the same programs that are funding the 
waste and fraud that have been located.
  How can that be? If we have located the waste and fraud, why are we 
not telling them to reduce foreign aid? If the foreign aid budget is 
full of all kinds of crazy, leftwing advocacy and nonsense, reduce the 
amount of money you give them.
  This bill will give them the same amount of money they got last year. 
This bill allows foreign aid to continue. It doesn't incorporate any of 
the DOGE cuts. It doesn't cut waste. This bill embraces the waste. It 
allows the waste to continue. This bill doesn't respect the taxpayer. 
It continues to throw their money away.
  This bill continues the Biden levels of spending that caused historic 
inflation, that caused prices to rise, that caused people to be 
outraged, to vote for a new President. Why in the world would we 
continue the same spending levels that led to the debt that led to the 
inflation that is plaguing us?
  This malpractice is compounded by the fact that President Trump and 
DOGE made it easy for Congress to fix. They actually told us where the 
waste was and where the waste and abuse was and told us how to root it 
out, how to remove it.
  The waste found by DOGE truly shocks the conscience. Taxpayers paid 
$25,000 for an LGBT trans opera in Colombia. They spent $2 million on 
sex changes in Guatemala. They spent $1.5 million advancing DEI 
initiatives in Serbia. They spent $6 million on tourism in Egypt. They 
spent $32,000 for a transgender comic book in Peru.
  Some of the USAID's programs have actually gone beyond woke absurdity 
into pouring money and support to people who are the enemies of the 
United States. The Agency provided millions of dollars to EcoHealth, 
which funded the dangerous research in Wuhan which, in all likelihood, 
created and caused the pandemic.
  From this account, also, millions of dollars went to support 
agriculture in

[[Page S1766]]

Afghanistan, including fertilizer for the poppy fields grown by the 
Taliban.
  And yet, even after all that DOGE has uncovered--and I commend them--
Congress is still on the verge of passing a bill that fully funds 
foreign aid. Many in this Chamber think it is wasteful to do all these 
things, and they say: Well, why should we keep spending money on 
foreign aid that is paying for sex changes in Guatemala? And yet the 
funding levels in this bill stay the same. These are the same funding 
levels for the foreign aid that were occurring under the Biden 
administration.
  Let me say that again and clearly: This bill fully funds the 
outrageous foreign aid programs that Elon Musk and DOGE have exposed. 
Something doesn't make sense here.
  While Congress seems slow to open its eyes to waste and abuse, 
Secretary Rubio has acted. He recently said that the United States is 
canceling 83 percent of the foreign aid contracts. I am for that. In 
fact, that is what my amendment will do. My amendment will take the 
contracts--the dollar amount of the contracts--that President Trump and 
Secretary Rubio have canceled and put them into language so they don't 
get funded. Why in the world would we not be for getting rid of the 
funding for the crazy programs we are trying to get rid of? Something 
doesn't make sense here.
  President Trump and his team identified the cuts that need to be 
made, but it is ultimately Congress, not the Executive, that has the 
power of the purse. Congress has to act to make the cuts identified by 
the administration a reality. And on that score, the bill under 
consideration today is a disappointment. The bill is a disappointment 
to those who believe that congressional leadership should have used the 
3 months since they came into office, since DOGE and Elon Musk have 
identified this waste--they should have used that waste and 
incorporated it into the spending bill.
  None of the DOGE cuts, none of Elon Musk's suggestions, have been 
incorporated into the spending bill. The spending bill continues 
spending at the Biden levels. When everybody wakes up and scratches 
their head and says, ``What happened here?'' the spending will lead to 
$2 trillion in debt. People will wake up and say: Well, what about all 
those cuts? What happened? I thought we were cutting out waste and 
fraud. And come September, the deficit for the year will be $2 
trillion. Because we are not actually cutting the spending. Congress 
has to do the heavy lifting.
  We owe the American people an answer to this question: Exactly how 
many Republican seats are required in Congress to achieve a majority 
that will actually fight to lower government spending?
  I don't think the taxpayers need to wait for that fight any longer. I 
am not willing to say: Oh, just wait, young man. Wait for another day. 
We will be fixing this 6 months from now.
  It never comes. This is the story of this place: Wait until another 
day. Wait until the sun shines; we will finally cut some spending.
  It never comes. Someone must make a stand and fight. To that end, I 
offer a DOGE cuts 1.0 amendment that would codify the cuts in foreign 
aid, reducing USAID's budget by 83 percent and aligning with Secretary 
Rubio's recent decision to eliminate thousands of these programs.
  So what I am doing is not inconsistent with the Trump administration; 
what I am doing is in support of the Trump administration. What I am 
doing is taking the preliminary cuts that Secretary Rubio has given to 
foreign aid and making them law.
  Why? Because the whole judiciary is opposing the President. They are 
telling him he can't fire people, that he can't cut spending. He needs 
Congress to step up and do their job. The people who support the 
President need to be supporting the President's cuts. They need to be 
supporting an amendment--DOGE 1.0--that puts those cuts into law.
  I am not even talking about codifying all of the cuts. I am only 
taking a small sliver of them in foreign aid. This is the low-hanging 
fruit. This is the worst of the worst. This is $3 million for girl-
centric climate change in Brazil. This is $4.8 million for social media 
influencers in Ukraine. This is hundreds of thousands of dollars spent 
sending Ukrainian fashion designers to the Paris fashion show. This is 
waste--utter and simple waste--and it ought to be cut.
  Why would people tell you publicly they are for it and then vote 
against it? It doesn't seem to make any sense. What my amendment does 
is put DOGE's findings into action, eliminating much of the funding for 
an Agency that spent tax dollars on woke entertainment and advocacy. It 
sets in law the reductions that the Trump administration has made known 
to be necessary.
  I applaud DOGE's work to uncover these many instances of abuse of 
taxpayer dollars, and it is now Congress's turn to make the cuts stick. 
If we do not adopt my amendment, then taxpayers will simply continue 
spending substantial amounts of money to defund components of the 
government rather than using savings to pay down our mounting debt. In 
other words, you might cut it and think it is cut one day; but what if 
the courts say you have to spend it somewhere else? It never comes 
back. The cuts are never real. The only way the cuts the administration 
is making will ever be real, will ever be counted, will ever lessen the 
debt in the country is to vote in Congress. That is what this is about.
  It would be the height of hypocrisy for Congress to pay lipservice to 
DOGE's exceptional work, support it on the superficial, and then vote 
against it when you have a chance to vote on it.
  Continuing to spend at this bill's level will add $2 trillion in 
debt. That is a fact. All the newspapers reporting yesterday--it was 
all over the news: record-setting accumulation of debt.
  We have accumulated over a trillion, and we are not halfway through 
the year. It is a record accumulation of debt. It only stops when 
people stand up and say: Enough is enough.
  The least we can do is make sure that it doesn't include the 
egregious spending that has come from the foreign aid, the craziness, 
the sex change operations in Guatemala, trans operas, trans comic 
books. All of these ludicrous things that no American supports will 
only go away and will only go away with permanence if we vote for it.
  Before us is a chance to enact about $16 billion worth of DOGE's cuts 
in foreign aid. These cuts are only real in the long term if they are 
reflected in congressional action. If we continue to fund the Federal 
Government at the Biden administration levels, which is what this bill 
does, then the money from DOGE's hard-found savings will just be spent 
somewhere else.
  I urge all of my colleagues who have praised DOGE's work to match 
their actions to their words and vote yes on this amendment.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The Senator from Oregon.
  Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, notwithstanding rule XXII, I ask unanimous 
consent that Senator Wyden, Senator Sanders, and Senator Scott be 
recognized for up to 25 minutes, and that following their remarks, the 
majority leader be recognized.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                   Unanimous Consent Request--S. 891

  Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I come to the floor with my colleague from 
Vermont Senator Sanders to pass a set of critical improvements to 
America's healthcare system. This legislation is overwhelmingly 
bipartisan, fully paid for, and targeted at two objectives every 
Senator ought to support: improving healthcare for Americans and 
cracking down on the middlemen who take advantage of the system.
  Mr. President, 597 days ago, the Senate Finance Committee passed the 
most comprehensive legislation in history to address the pharmacy 
benefit managers' predatory business practices, and it was passed by a 
vote of 26 to 1. And 493 days ago, the Senate Finance Committee passed 
another piece of healthcare legislation that improves

[[Page S1767]]

mental healthcare for Americans with Medicaid, expands and strengthens 
telehealth, and more PBM policies, by a vote, again, of 26 to 0. Since 
that time, negotiations about how to sign these policies into law have 
been fatally intertwined with the dysfunctional debate over 
congressional appropriations, as the public can see on full display 
this week.
  These policies are too important to leave behind due to an unrelated 
disagreement. Community pharmacists are counting on this legislation. 
Doctors who don't want to see a pay cut are counting on this 
legislation. Seniors and working families who want better care at a 
lower cost are counting on this legislation. So the time to act is now.
  In December, Democrats and Republicans struck a deal on this bill. I 
have the press release on my website to prove it. It was introduced in 
the House and set for passage. But along came Elon Musk and his now 
familiar wrecking ball. With one tweet, he killed the entire package 
for reasons that had nothing to do with the bill before the Senate 
today.
  Musk even had the gall to tweet, ``What is a `pharmacy benefit 
manager'?'' less than 2 weeks after he single-handedly killed the bill.
  While this unelected billionaire rifles through Americans' private 
information and earned benefits, claiming to be looking for waste, 
fraud, and abuse, he doesn't even know about the middlemen who skim 
billions off the Federal Government.
  Since Musk's tweeting adventure, 237 independent pharmacies have 
closed their doors. That is nearly three small businesses closing every 
day. Our bill includes critical protections that stop the giant PBMs 
from bullying even more local pharmacies into the abyss. Every day 
matters. That is why it is critical to act now.
  Now, I would like to yield to the ranking member of the Health, 
Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee, Senator Sanders, so he can 
explain the important pieces of this bill that are in his committee's 
jurisdiction that also need to pass as soon as possible.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Vermont.
  Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, let me thank Senator Wyden for his 
outstanding work as the former chairman of the Finance Committee and 
now as the ranking member.
  I get around Vermont a bit. I get around the country a bit. And, 
generally speaking, when I talk to a group of people, I ask them a 
simple question.
  I say: What do you think about the healthcare system? Is it working 
well or is it broken? Is it dysfunctional?
  And, overwhelmingly, the hands go up that the American healthcare 
system today is broken, it is dysfunctional, and it is cruel. And what 
people understand is the function of the American healthcare system, 
today, is not to provide quality healthcare to all of our people, 
which, in fact, goes on in every other major country on Earth. It is to 
make huge profits for the drug companies and the insurance companies.
  The current healthcare system is a system in which we spend twice as 
much per capita on healthcare as do the people of any other nation--an 
astronomical sum of money. And yet despite all that money, 85 million 
Americans are uninsured or underinsured, and the cost of healthcare 
keeps going up every single year. One out of four Americans cannot 
afford the costs of the drugs that their doctors prescribe. And, 
unbelievably, it is a system in which 60,000 Americans die each year 
because they can't get to a doctor on time.
  It is a system in which we don't have enough doctors, we don't have 
enough nurses, we don't have enough dentists, and we don't have enough 
pharmacists. But the good news is the insurance companies and the drug 
companies are making huge profits.
  The current healthcare system is a system in which our life 
expectancy is lower than in any other major country, and if you are 
working class in America, you are going to live 7 years of shorter life 
than if you are wealthy.
  It is a system in which some 500,000 people go bankrupt each year 
because of medically related debt. It is a system where, in large parts 
of our country, rural hospitals are being shut down and where people 
even with decent insurance have to travel hours in order to find a 
doctor.
  As Senator Wyden indicated, in December, after months and months of 
difficult negotiations--and I want to congratulate Senator Wyden, 
Senator Crapo, and all of the people involved in those negotiations--we 
made some progress on this healthcare crisis by coming together on a 
bipartisan and bicameral agreement on a healthcare package.
  That legislation, while more modest than I would have wanted, would 
have provided $4.5 billion for community health centers this year and 
$4.6 billion next year, up 15 percent from a few years ago.
  Community health centers provide primary healthcare to 32 million 
Americans--working-class, lower income people. They do a phenomenal 
job, but they are under financial stress.
  That legislation would have provided $350 million a year, over 2 
years, for the National Health Service Corps, so we can attract young 
people to go out and work--young doctors to work in underserved areas. 
And it would have provided $300 million a year for teaching health 
centers.
  It would have also lowered the outrageous price of prescription drugs 
by taking on the greed of pharmacy benefit managers.
  It was a bipartisan bill. And just before that bill was going to be 
passed, Elon Musk, the wealthiest man in the world, who does not have 
to worry about whether he and his friends can afford healthcare, he 
sent out a series of tweets--some of them outrageously dishonest--to 
kill this legislation, and he succeeded in doing so.
  So, today, it is important that we take a step forward and undo the 
damage that Mr. Musk caused, and the legislation that we are proposing 
today would, in fact, begin to take us back where we were. It would 
increase funding for community health centers and do all of the other 
important work that Senator Wyden wanted.
  We have a healthcare crisis in America today. The CR that we are 
going to be voting on in a little while will make a bad situation 
worse. This is an opportunity to tell the American people that we are 
aware of the healthcare crisis; we are at least trying to do something.
  And I would yield back to Senator Wyden.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Oregon.
  Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, very briefly, I want to thank my colleague. 
We have been working, as we have indicated, for months and months, 
because Americans, with respect to healthcare, feel like they are 
getting hit by a wrecking ball here in terms of the costs and inability 
to get quality care.
  So with that, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate Committee on 
Finance be discharged from further consideration of S. 891 and the 
Senate proceed to its immediate consideration; that the Wyden 
substitute amendment, which is at the desk, be considered and agreed 
to; that the bill, as amended, be considered read a third time and 
passed; and that the motion to reconsider be considered made and laid 
upon the table. The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
  The Senator from Florida.
  Mr. SCOTT of Florida. I object.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The objection is heard.
  Mr. SANDERS. That is it?
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Vermont.
  Mr. SANDERS. We have a healthcare crisis--85 million uninsured or 
underinsured, people dying because they can't afford healthcare. We pay 
the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs. We have reached 
a bipartisan conclusion to go forward in a modest way, but it would 
have some impact in approving healthcare in America, and my Republican 
colleague objects. That is about it.
  Well, I hope the American people are watching.
  Mr. WYDEN. I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

[[Page S1768]]

  



                           Order of Procedure

  Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the cloture 
motion with respect to the motion to proceed to H.R. 1968 be withdrawn 
and that the motion to proceed to H.R. 1968 be agreed to; further, if 
cloture is filed on H.R. 1968, the Senate immediately vote on the 
motion to invoke cloture, and if cloture is invoked, the only 
amendments in order to H.R. 1968 be the following: Merkley No. 1273, 
Duckworth No. 1274, Van Hollen No. 1272, and Paul No. 1266; that the 
Senate vote on adoption of the amendments in the order listed, with 60-
affirmative votes required for adoption with the exception of the Paul 
amendment; that there be 2 minutes for debate, equally divided, prior 
to each vote; further, that upon disposition of the Paul amendment, all 
postcloture time be expired, the bill be considered read a third time, 
and the Senate vote on passage of the bill as amended, if amended, all 
without further intervening action or debate; further, that following 
disposition of H.R. 1968, the Senate proceed to immediate consideration 
of S. 1077; that there be up to 10 minutes for debate on the bill, 
equally divided between the two leaders or their designees; that upon 
the use or yielding back of time, the bill be considered read a third 
time and the Senate vote on passage, with no amendments or motions in 
order to the bill, and that the motions to reconsider be considered 
made and laid upon the table with no intervening action or debate; 
finally, following disposition of S. 1077, notwithstanding rule XXII, 
the Senate resume executive session and vote on the motion to invoke 
cloture on the Phelan nomination; and if cloture is invoked on the 
Phelan nomination, all postcloture time be expired and the Senate 
immediately vote on the motion to invoke cloture on the Landau 
nomination; and if cloture is invoked on the Landau nomination, all 
postcloture time be expired and the Senate vote on confirmation of the 
nominations at a time to be determined by the majority leader in 
consultation with the Democratic leader no earlier than Monday, March 
24.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________





