


[Pages S1753-S1754]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]



                           Government Funding

  Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I have spoken a lot about it being a new 
day in America. It is also a new day in the U.S. Senate. When I became 
leader, I promised we would do things differently around here. I think 
the last 10 weeks show I was serious about that.
  Unfortunately, today, our business is cleaning up from the old way of 
doing things. We are voting on yet another continuing resolution today 
because last year's Democrat majority pushed off full-year 
appropriations again and again.
  Last summer, the Appropriations Committee reported out 11 of its 12 
bills with bipartisan support. Six of those bills passed out of the 
committee unanimously. But month after month, Leader Schumer found 
something more important to do than fund the government, and not 1--not 
1--of those 11 bipartisan bills ever came to the floor.
  So, today, we are trying to finish up last year's work so that we can 
begin to do this year's work. To be clear, Republicans aren't thrilled 
about another CR, but it is our best option to make sure that last 
year's failure by Democrats doesn't interfere with this year's 
appropriations process.

[[Page S1754]]

  I am hopeful that enough Democrats will reject their party's threat 
of shutting down the government and get this bill passed today. As I 
said yesterday, it is time to move on, and moving forward, 
appropriation bills are going to be a priority in the Senate.
  When the Appropriations Committee sends a bill to the floor, my goal 
is to bring it to the floor for consideration, and I hope that my 
Democrat colleagues will cooperate in that effort. We are going to have 
a debate, consider amendments, and vote; and we are going to try to 
avoid the end-of-year pileup in continuing resolutions that I know we 
are all tired of.
  Another continuing resolution--another CR--was nobody's first choice, 
but I can tell you this: The next time the Senate votes on an 
appropriations bill, it won't be on the eve of another shutdown.
  So I appreciate my colleagues' support for this continuing 
resolution, and I look forward to a much better process for fiscal year 
2026.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.





