


[Pages S1783-S1784]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]

  SA 1274. Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself, Mr. Kim, Mr. Kaine, Mr. Wyden, 
Mr. Durbin, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Schatz, Mr. Kelly, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. 
Heinrich, Mr. Gallego, Ms. Rosen, and Mr. Warner) proposed an amendment 
to the bill H.R. 1968, making further continuing appropriations and 
other extensions for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2025, and for 
other purposes; as follows:

       At the appropriate place, insert the following:

[[Page S1784]]

  


     SEC. __. REINSTATEMENT ELIGIBILITY FOR VETERAN FEDERAL 
                   EMPLOYEES; EXECUTIVE AGENCY REPORTS ON REMOVAL 
                   OF VETERANS.

       (a) Eligibility for Reinstatement.--Any individual who is a 
     veteran and who was involuntarily removed or otherwise 
     dismissed without cause from a position in the civil service 
     during the period beginning on January 20, 2025, and ending 
     on the date of the enactment of this Act shall be eligible 
     for reinstatement to such position or any other position in 
     the civil service for which the individual is qualified.
       (b) Reports Required.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, and every 90 days thereafter until 
     January 20, 2029, the head of each Executive agency shall 
     submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report 
     on former employees of such agency who are veterans and were 
     removed or otherwise dismissed from the agency.
       (2) Elements.--Each report required by paragraph (1) shall 
     include the following:
       (A) The total number of former employees of the agency who 
     are veterans and were removed or otherwise dismissed from the 
     agency during the period covered by the report.
       (B) The reason for each such removal or dismissal.
       (c) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
     ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
       (A) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
     Affairs and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate; 
     and
       (B) the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and 
     the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives.
       (2) Civil service.--The term ``civil service'' has the 
     meaning given that term in section 2101 of title 5, United 
     States Code.
       (3) Executive agency.--The term ``Executive agency'' has 
     the meaning given that term in section 105 of title 5, United 
     States Code.
       (4) Veteran.--The term ``veteran'' has the meaning given 
     that term in section 101 of title 38, United States Code.
                                 ______





