


[Pages S1777-S1778]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 177

  At the request of Ms. Ernst, the name of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Ms. Lummis) was added as a cosponsor of S. 177, a bill to prohibit 
Federal funding of Planned Parenthood Federation of America.


                                 S. 186

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. McCormick) was added as a cosponsor of S. 186, a bill 
to prohibit taxpayer funded abortions.


                                 S. 339

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the names of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) and the Senator from Arizona (Mr. Gallego) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 339, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
Security Act to provide for Medicare coverage of multi-cancer early 
detection screening tests.


                                 S. 356

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mr. Schiff) was added as a cosponsor of S. 356, a bill to extend the 
Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act of 2000.


                                 S. 410

  At the request of Mr. Warnock, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 410, a bill to amend 
titles 10 and 38, United States Code, to improve benefits and services 
for surviving spouses, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 522

  At the request of Mr. Hagerty, the name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mr. Ricketts) was added as a cosponsor of S. 522, a bill to amend the 
Federal Credit Union Act to modify the frequency of board of directors 
meetings, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 576

  At the request of Mr. Marshall, the name of the Senator from Ohio 
(Mr. Moreno) was added as a cosponsor of S. 576, a bill to prohibit the 
flying, draping, or other display of any flag other than the flag of 
the United States at covered public buildings, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 615

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Mullin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 615, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the excise taxes on taxable 
chemicals and taxable substances.


                                 S. 646

  At the request of Ms. Rosen, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Sanders) was added as a cosponsor of S. 646, a bill to prohibit 
the use of funds to carry out Executive Order 14160.


                                 S. 691

  At the request of Mr. Young, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Slotkin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 691, a bill to amend the 
Tariff Act of 1930 to improve the administration of antidumping and 
countervailing duty laws, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 696

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 696, a bill to 
provide temporary Ukrainian guest status for eligible aliens, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 903

  At the request of Mr. Rounds, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Cramer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 903, a bill to amend 
the Defense Production Act of 1950 to require the Committee on Foreign 
Investment in the United States to review and prohibit certain 
transactions relating to agriculture.


                                 S. 914

  At the request of Mr. Warner, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
914, a bill to make veteran Federal employees who were involuntarily 
dismissed without cause eligible for reinstatement, to require reports 
from Executive agencies on the number of veteran employees fired from 
such agencies, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 928

  At the request of Mr. Banks, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Moreno) was added as a cosponsor of S. 928, a bill to amend the 
Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 to prohibit plan 
investments in foreign adversary and sanctioned entities, require 
disclosure of existing investments in such entities, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 934

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Lujan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 934, a bill to make housing 
more affordable, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 978

  At the request of Mrs. Moody, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Hickenlooper) was added as a cosponsor of S. 978, a bill to amend 
the National Housing Act to establish a mortgage insurance program for 
first responders, and for other purposes.

[[Page S1778]]

  



                                 S. 995

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 995, a bill to repeal a 
rule of the Environmental Protection Agency with respect to multi-
pollutant emissions standards, to amend the Clean Air Act to ensure 
that tailpipe regulations do not limit the availability of new motor 
vehicles, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 997

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Bennet) was added as a cosponsor of S. 997, a bill to enhance the 
security operations of the Transportation Security Administration and 
stability of the transportation security workforce by applying the 
personnel system under title 5, United States Code, to employees of the 
Transportation Security Administration, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1032

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the name of the Senator from 
Indiana (Mr. Young) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1032, a bill to 
amend title 10, United States Code, to provide for concurrent receipt 
of veterans' disability compensation and retired pay for disability 
retirees with combat-related disabilities, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1056

  At the request of Mr. Rounds, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1056, a bill to establish 
a home-based telemental health care grant program for purposes of 
increasing mental health and substance use services in rural medically 
underserved populations and for individuals in farming, fishing, and 
forestry occupations.


                                S. 1064

  At the request of Mr. Young, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Scott) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1064, a bill to preserve 
open competition and Federal Government neutrality towards the labor 
relations of Federal Government contractors on Federal and federally 
funded construction projects, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1068

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1068, a bill to 
amend title 5 and title 38, United States Code, to put veteran and 
military families first and to provide protections for employees, 
benefits, and programs of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and for 
other purposes.


                              S.J. RES. 1

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 1, a joint 
resolution proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United 
States relative to limiting the number of terms that a Member of 
Congress may serve.


                             S. CON. RES. 8

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Mullin) was added as a cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 8, a concurrent 
resolution supporting the Local Radio Freedom Act.


                               S. RES. 68

  At the request of Mr. Kaine, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Kim) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 68, a resolution 
expressing the sense of the Senate that the United States shall not 
deploy United States military assets or personnel to Gaza for purposes 
of ``taking over'' Gaza.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1267

  At the request of Ms. Alsobrooks, the names of the Senator from New 
York (Mrs. Gillibrand), the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Kim), the 
Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal), the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters), the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Wyden), the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Booker), the Senator from Illinois (Mr. Durbin) and the 
Senator from Hawaii (Mr. Schatz) were added as cosponsors of amendment 
No. 1267 intended to be proposed to H.R. 1968, a bill making further 
continuing appropriations and other extensions for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 2025, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1270

  At the request of Mr. Kaine, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Warner) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1270 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 1968, a bill making further continuing 
appropriations and other extensions for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2025, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1271

  At the request of Mr. Kaine, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Warner) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1271 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 1968, a bill making further continuing 
appropriations and other extensions for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2025, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1272

  At the request of Mr. Van Hollen, the names of the Senator from 
Hawaii (Mr. Schatz) and the Senator from Illinois (Mr. Durbin) were 
added as cosponsors of amendment No. 1272 proposed to H.R. 1968, a bill 
making further continuing appropriations and other extensions for the 
fiscal year ending September 30, 2025, and for other purposes.

                          ____________________





