


[Pages S1776-S1777]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Ms. ERNST (for herself and Ms. Klobuchar):
       S. 1070. A bill to establish a National STEM Week to 
     promote American innovation and enhance STEM education 
     pathways for all students, including those in rural, urban, 
     and underserved communities; to the Committee on Commerce, 
     Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. CORNYN (for himself and Mr. Cruz):
       S. 1071. A bill to require the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to disinter the remains of Fernando V. Cota from Fort 
     Sam Houston National Cemetery, Texas, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. LEE (for himself, Mr. Cassidy, Mr. Ricketts, Mr. 
             Marshall, Mr. Daines, Mr. Risch, Mr. Scott of 
             Florida, Mr. Cramer, Mr. Sullivan, Mr. Mullin, Mr. 
             Crapo, Mr. Justice, Mrs. Capito, Mr. Cruz, and Ms. 
             Lummis):
       S. 1072. A bill to amend the Clean Air Act to eliminate a 
     waiver under that Act, to eliminate an authorization for 
     States to use new motor vehicle emission and new motor 
     vehicle engine emissions standards identical to standards 
     adopted in California, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and Mr. Thune):
       S. 1073. A bill to amend the Federal Crop Insurance Act to 
     promote crop insurance support for beginning farmers and 
     ranchers and veteran farmers and ranchers, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
     Forestry.
           By Mr. BENNET (for himself and Ms. Lummis):
       S. 1074. A bill to provide for a study on the accessibility 
     of substance use disorder treatment and mental health care 
     providers and services for farmers and ranchers, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, 
     and Pensions.
           By Ms. ALSOBROOKS (for herself, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. 
             Warner, and Mr. Kaine):
       S. 1075. A bill to require the reinstatement of recently 
     terminated probationary Federal employees, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr. Peters, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Ms. Duckworth, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Heinrich, 
             Ms. Hirono, Mr. Padilla, Mrs. Shaheen, Ms. Smith, Mr. 
             Whitehouse, Mr. Wyden, and Mr. Markey):
       S. 1076. A bill to address the importation and 
     proliferation of machinegun conversion devices; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Mr. Van Hollen, Ms. 
             Alsobrooks, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Warner, Mr. Kaine, and 
             Mr. Kim):
       S. 1077. A bill to approve local funds for the District of 
     Columbia for fiscal year 2025, in accordance with the Fiscal 
     Year 2025 Local Budget Act of 2024, and to establish 
     provisions for the use of such funds; considered and passed.
           By Mr. WICKER (for himself, Ms. Baldwin, and Mr. 
             Boozman):
       S. 1078. A bill to establish the Mississippi River Basin 
     Fishery Commission, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mrs. BLACKBURN (for herself, Mr. Hagerty, Mr. Cruz, 
             and Mr. Justice):
       S. 1079. A bill to amend the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe 
     Streets Act of 1968 to establish a grant program for law 
     enforcement

[[Page S1777]]

     agencies, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. WICKER (for himself and Mr. Durbin):
       S. 1080. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to exclude from gross income certain federally subsidized 
     loan repayments for dental school faculty; to the Committee 
     on Finance.
           By Mr. CRUZ (for himself and Ms. Duckworth):
       S. 1081. A bill to require the Administrator of the 
     National Aeronautics and Space Administration to submit 
     certain reports to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Science, 
     Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
     and Transportation.
           By Mr. BARRASSO (for himself, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. 
             Lankford, Mr. Wicker, Ms. Lummis, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. 
             Marshall, Mr. Scott of Florida, and Mr. Daines):
       S. 1082. A bill to apply the Medicaid asset verification 
     program to all applicants for, and recipients of, medical 
     assistance in all States and territories, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. BARRASSO (for himself, Mr. Daines, and Mr. 
             King):
       S. 1083. A bill to provide for certain improvements to the 
     housing and workforce programs of Federal land management 
     agencies, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. HOEVEN (for himself and Mr. Cramer):
       S. 1084. A bill to authorize the relinquishment and in lieu 
     selection of land and minerals in the State of North Dakota, 
     to restore land and minerals to Indian Tribes within the 
     State of North Dakota, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. ROUNDS (for himself and Mr. Heinrich):
       S. 1085. A bill to require the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services to implement a pandemic preparedness and 
     response program using artificial intelligence; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mrs. MOODY:
       S. 1086. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to prohibit the admission of Chinese nationals as 
     nonimmigrant students, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and Mr. Tillis):
       S. 1087. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to adjust allowable direct and indirect costs for nursing 
     and allied health education programs; to the Committee on 
     Finance.

                          ____________________





